## LeetCode link(Easy)
https://leetcode.com/problems/happy-number/

## Keyword
Hash Table, Floyd's Cycle-Finding Algorithm

## Problem description
```
Write an algorithm to determine if a number is "happy".

A happy number is a number defined by the following process: Starting with any positive integer, replace the number by the sum of the squares of its digits, and repeat the process until the number equals 1 (where it will stay), or it loops endlessly in a cycle which does not include 1. Those numbers for which this process ends in 1 are happy numbers.

Example: 

Input: 19
Output: true
Explanation: 
12 + 92 = 82
82 + 22 = 68
62 + 82 = 100
12 + 02 + 02 = 1
```
## 2/3/2020 Solution Recursion

```java
class Solution {
    public boolean isHappy(int n) {
        //a hashset to store numbers to check for repeats
        Set<Integer> hashSet = new HashSet<>();
        //keep checking the number's next sequence to see if it repeats or go to 1
        while(n != 1){
            if(!hashSet.contains(n)){
                hashSet.add(n);
                int sum = 0;
                while(n != 0){
                    int digit = 0;
                    digit = n % 10;
                    n = n / 10;
                    sum += digit * digit;
                }
                n = sum;
            }
            else return false;
        }
        return true;
    }
}
```

## Complexity Analyze
Determining the time complexity for this problem is challenging for an "easy" level question. If you're new to these problems, have a go at calculating the time complexity for just the getNext(n) function (don't worry about how many numbers will be in the chain).

Time complexity : O(243⋅3+logn+loglogn+logloglogn)... = O(logn).

Finding the next value for a given number has a cost of O(logn) because we are processing each digit in the number, and the number of digits in a number is given by logn.

To work out the total time complexity, we'll need to think carefully about how many numbers are in the chain, and how big they are.

We determined above that once a number is below 243, it is impossible for it to go back up above 243. Therefore, based on our very shallow analysis we know for sure that once a number is below 243, it is impossible for it to take more than another 243 steps to terminate. Each of these numbers has at most 3 digits. With a little more analysis, we could replace the 243 with the length of the longest number chain below 243, however because the constant doesn't matter anyway, we won't worry about it.

For an nn above 243, we need to consider the cost of each number in the chain that is above 243. With a little math, we can show that in the worst case, these costs will be O(logn)+O(loglogn)+O(logloglogn).... Luckily for us, the O(logn) is the dominating part, and the others are all tiny in comparison (collectively, they add up to less than logn), so we can ignore them.

Space complexity : O(logn). Closely related to the time complexity, and is a measure of what numbers we're putting in the HashSet, and how big they are. For a large enough nn, the most space will be taken by nn itself.

We can optimize to O(1)O(243⋅3)=O(1) easily by only saving numbers in the set that are less than 243243, as we have already shown that for numbers that are higher, it's impossible to get back to them anyway.

It might seem worrying that we're simply dropping such "large" constants. But this is what we do in Big O notation, which is a measure of how long the function will take, as the size of the input increases.

Think about what would happen if you had a number with 1 million digits in it. The first step of the algorithm would process those million digits, and then the next value would be, at most (pretend all the digits are 9), be 81 * 1,000,000 = 81,000,00081∗1,000,000=81,000,000. In just one step, we've gone from a million digits, down to just 8. The largest possible 8 digit number we could get is 99,9999,99999,9999,999, which then goes down to 81 * 8 = 64881∗8=648. And then from here, the cost will be the same as if we'd started with a 3 digit number. Starting with 2 million digits (a massively larger number than one with a 1 million digits) would only take roughly twice as long, as again, the dominant part is summing the squares of the 2 million digits, and the rest is tiny in comparison.

## Notes
Finding the next value for a given number has a cost of O(\log n)O(logn) because we are processing each digit in the number, and the number of digits in a number is given by logn.

## Key points
Corner cases: \
API: HashSet.add(), HashSet.contains()

## Community: Floyd's Cycle-Finding Algorithm

```java
class Solution {
    public boolean isHappy(int n) {
        int slowRunner = n;
        int fastRunner = getNext(n);
        while(fastRunner != 1 && fastRunner != slowRunner){
            slowRunner = getNext(slowRunner);
            fastRunner = getNext(getNext(fastRunner));
        }
        return fastRunner == 1;
    }
    public int getNext(int n){
        int sum = 0;
        while(n > 0){
            int digit = n % 10;
            n = n / 10;
            sum += digit * digit;
        }
        return sum;
    }
}
```

## Complexity Analyze
Same as above\
Time complexity: O(logn)\
Space complexity: O(1)

## Notes
The chain we get by repeatedly calling getNext(n) is an implicit LinkedList. Implicit means we don't have actual LinkedNode's and pointers, but the data does still form a LinkedList structure. The starting number is the head "node" of the list, and all the other numbers in the chain are nodes. The next pointer is obtained with our getNext(n) function above.\
Recognizing that we actually have a LinkedList, it turns out that this question is almost the same as another Leetcode problem, detecting if a linked list has a cycle. As @Freezen has pointed out, we can therefore use Floyd's Cycle-Finding Algorithm here. This algorithm is based on 2 runners running around a circular race track, a fast runner and a slow runner. In reference to a famous fable, many people call the slow runner the "tortoise" and the fast runner the "hare".\
Regardless of where the tortoise and hare start in the cycle, they are guaranteed to eventually meet. This is because the hare moves one node closer to the tortoise (in their direction of movement) each step.

## Key points
Corner cases: \
API: